site/content/docs/5.0/utilities/background.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Background
description: Convey meaning through `background-color` and add decoration with gradients.
group: utilities
toc: true
---

## Background color

Similar to the contextual text color classes, set the background of an element to any contextual class. Background utilities **do not set `color`**, so in some cases you'll want to use `.text-*` [color utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/colors" >}}).

{{< example >}}
{{< colors.inline >}}
{{- range (index $.Site.Data "theme-colors") }}
<div class="p-3 mb-2 bg-{{ .name }}{{ if .contrast_color }} text-{{ .contrast_color }}{{ else }} text-white{{ end }}">.bg-{{ .name }}</div>
{{- end -}}
{{< /colors.inline >}}
<div class="p-3 mb-2 bg-body text-dark">.bg-body</div>
<div class="p-3 mb-2 bg-white text-dark">.bg-white</div>
<div class="p-3 mb-2 bg-transparent text-dark">.bg-transparent</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Background gradient

By adding a `.bg-gradient` class, a linear gradient is added as background image to the backgrounds. This gradient starts with a semi-transparent white which fades out to the bottom.

Do you need a gradient in your custom CSS? Just add `background-image: var(--bs-gradient);`.

{{< markdown >}}
{{< colors.inline >}}
{{- range (index $.Site.Data "theme-colors") }}
<div class="p-3 mb-2 bg-{{ .name }} bg-gradient{{ with .contrast_color }} text-{{ . }}{{ else }} text-white{{ end }}">.bg-{{ .name }}.bg-gradient</div>
{{- end -}}
{{< /colors.inline >}}
{{< /markdown >}}

## Opacity

<small class="d-inline-flex px-2 py-1 font-monospace text-muted border rounded-3">Added in v5.1.0</small>

As of v5.1.0, `background-color` utilities are generated with Sass using CSS variables. This allows for real-time color changes without compilation and dynamic alpha transparency changes.

### How it works

Consider our default `.bg-success` utility.

```css
.bg-success {
  --bs-bg-opacity: 1;
  background-color: rgba(var(--bs-success-rgb), var(--bs-bg-opacity)) !important;
}
```

We use an RGB version of our `--bs-succes` (with the value of `25, 135, 84`) CSS variable and attached a second CSS variable, `--bs-bg-opacity`, for the alpha transparency (with no default value, but a fallback of `1`). That means anytime you use `.bg-success` now, your computed `color` value is `rgba(25, 135, 84, 1)`.

### Example

To change that opacity, override `--bs-bg-opacity` via custom styles or inline styles.

{{< example >}}
<div class="bg-success p-2 text-white">This is default success background</div>
<div class="bg-success p-2" style="--bs-bg-opacity: .5;">This is 50% opacity success background</div>
{{< /example >}}

Or, choose from any of the `.bg-opacity` utilities:

{{< example >}}
<div class="bg-success p-2 text-white">This is default success background</div>
<div class="bg-success p-2 text-white bg-opacity-75">This is 75% opacity success background</div>
<div class="bg-success p-2 text-dark bg-opacity-50">This is 50% opacity success background</div>
<div class="bg-success p-2 text-dark bg-opacity-25">This is 25% opacity success background</div>
<div class="bg-success p-2 text-dark bg-opacity-10">This is 10% opacity success background</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Sass

In addition to the following Sass functionality, consider reading about our included [CSS custom properties]({{< docsref "/customize/css-variables" >}}) (aka CSS variables) for colors and more.

### Variables

Most `background-color` utilities are generated by our theme colors, reassigned from our generic color palette variables.

{{< scss-docs name="color-variables" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

{{< scss-docs name="theme-color-variables" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

{{< scss-docs name="variable-gradient" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

Grayscale colors are also available, but only a subset are used to generate any utilities.

{{< scss-docs name="gray-color-variables" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

### Map

Theme colors are then put into a Sass map so we can loop over them to generate our utilities, component modifiers, and more.

{{< scss-docs name="theme-colors-map" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

Grayscale colors are also available as a Sass map. **This map is not used to generate any utilities.**

{{< scss-docs name="gray-colors-map" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

RGB colors are generated from a separate Sass map:

{{< scss-docs name="theme-colors-rgb" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

And background color opacities build on that with their own map that's consumed by the utilities API:

{{< scss-docs name="utilities-bg-colors" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

### Mixins

**No mixins are used to generate our background utilities**, but we do have some additional mixins for other situations where you'd like to create your own gradients.

{{< scss-docs name="gradient-bg-mixin" file="scss/mixins/_gradients.scss" >}}

{{< scss-docs name="gradient-mixins" file="scss/mixins/_gradients.scss" >}}

### Utilities API

Background utilities are declared in our utilities API in `scss/_utilities.scss`. [Learn how to use the utilities API.]({{< docsref "/utilities/api#using-the-api" >}})

{{< scss-docs name="utils-bg-color" file="scss/_utilities.scss" >}}

Commit message:

Document the utility API's new css-var boolean
Improve utils API docs to reflect latest changes

More API docs updates

fix indentation in snippets while i'm here

Clarify usage of local CSS var, fix typo from copy-pasta

site/content/docs/5.0/utilities/background.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Background
description: Convey meaning through `background-color` and add decoration with gradients.
group: utilities
toc: true
---

## Background color

Similar to the contextual text color classes, set the background of an element to any contextual class. Background utilities **do not set `color`**, so in some cases you'll want to use `.text-*` [color utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/colors" >}}).

{{< example >}}
{{< colors.inline >}}
{{- range (index $.Site.Data "theme-colors") }}
<div class="p-3 mb-2 bg-{{ .name }}{{ if .contrast_color }} text-{{ .contrast_color }}{{ else }} text-white{{ end }}">.bg-{{ .name }}</div>
{{- end -}}
{{< /colors.inline >}}
<div class="p-3 mb-2 bg-body text-dark">.bg-body</div>
<div class="p-3 mb-2 bg-white text-dark">.bg-white</div>
<div class="p-3 mb-2 bg-transparent text-dark">.bg-transparent</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Background gradient

By adding a `.bg-gradient` class, a linear gradient is added as background image to the backgrounds. This gradient starts with a semi-transparent white which fades out to the bottom.

Do you need a gradient in your custom CSS? Just add `background-image: var(--bs-gradient);`.

{{< markdown >}}
{{< colors.inline >}}
{{- range (index $.Site.Data "theme-colors") }}
<div class="p-3 mb-2 bg-{{ .name }} bg-gradient{{ with .contrast_color }} text-{{ . }}{{ else }} text-white{{ end }}">.bg-{{ .name }}.bg-gradient</div>
{{- end -}}
{{< /colors.inline >}}
{{< /markdown >}}

## Opacity

<small class="d-inline-flex px-2 py-1 font-monospace text-muted border rounded-3">Added in v5.1.0</small>

As of v5.1.0, `background-color` utilities are generated with Sass using CSS variables. This allows for real-time color changes without compilation and dynamic alpha transparency changes.

### How it works

Consider our default `.bg-success` utility.

```css
.bg-success {
  --bs-bg-opacity: 1;
  background-color: rgba(var(--bs-success-rgb), var(--bs-bg-opacity)) !important;
}
```

We use an RGB version of our `--bs-success` (with the value of `25, 135, 84`) CSS variable and attached a second CSS variable, `--bs-bg-opacity`, for the alpha transparency (with a default value `1` thanks to a local CSS variable). That means anytime you use `.bg-success` now, your computed `color` value is `rgba(25, 135, 84, 1)`. The local CSS variable inside each `.bg-*` class avoids inheritance issues so nested instances of the utilities don't automatically have a modified alpha transparency.

### Example

To change that opacity, override `--bs-bg-opacity` via custom styles or inline styles.

{{< example >}}
<div class="bg-success p-2 text-white">This is default success background</div>
<div class="bg-success p-2" style="--bs-bg-opacity: .5;">This is 50% opacity success background</div>
{{< /example >}}

Or, choose from any of the `.bg-opacity` utilities:

{{< example >}}
<div class="bg-success p-2 text-white">This is default success background</div>
<div class="bg-success p-2 text-white bg-opacity-75">This is 75% opacity success background</div>
<div class="bg-success p-2 text-dark bg-opacity-50">This is 50% opacity success background</div>
<div class="bg-success p-2 text-dark bg-opacity-25">This is 25% opacity success background</div>
<div class="bg-success p-2 text-dark bg-opacity-10">This is 10% opacity success background</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Sass

In addition to the following Sass functionality, consider reading about our included [CSS custom properties]({{< docsref "/customize/css-variables" >}}) (aka CSS variables) for colors and more.

### Variables

Most `background-color` utilities are generated by our theme colors, reassigned from our generic color palette variables.

{{< scss-docs name="color-variables" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

{{< scss-docs name="theme-color-variables" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

{{< scss-docs name="variable-gradient" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

Grayscale colors are also available, but only a subset are used to generate any utilities.

{{< scss-docs name="gray-color-variables" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

### Map

Theme colors are then put into a Sass map so we can loop over them to generate our utilities, component modifiers, and more.

{{< scss-docs name="theme-colors-map" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

Grayscale colors are also available as a Sass map. **This map is not used to generate any utilities.**

{{< scss-docs name="gray-colors-map" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

RGB colors are generated from a separate Sass map:

{{< scss-docs name="theme-colors-rgb" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

And background color opacities build on that with their own map that's consumed by the utilities API:

{{< scss-docs name="utilities-bg-colors" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

### Mixins

**No mixins are used to generate our background utilities**, but we do have some additional mixins for other situations where you'd like to create your own gradients.

{{< scss-docs name="gradient-bg-mixin" file="scss/mixins/_gradients.scss" >}}

{{< scss-docs name="gradient-mixins" file="scss/mixins/_gradients.scss" >}}

### Utilities API

Background utilities are declared in our utilities API in `scss/_utilities.scss`. [Learn how to use the utilities API.]({{< docsref "/utilities/api#using-the-api" >}})

{{< scss-docs name="utils-bg-color" file="scss/_utilities.scss" >}}
