site/content/docs/5.0/utilities/colors.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Colors
description: Convey meaning through `color` with a handful of color utility classes. Includes support for styling links with hover states, too.
group: utilities
toc: true
---

## Colors

Colorize text with color utilities. If you want to colorize links, you can use the [`.link-*` helper classes]({{< docsref "/helpers/colored-links" >}}) which have `:hover` and `:focus` states.

{{< example >}}
{{< colors.inline >}}
{{- range (index $.Site.Data "theme-colors") }}
<p class="text-{{ .name }}{{ with .contrast_color }} bg-{{ . }}{{ end }}">.text-{{ .name }}</p>
{{- end -}}
{{< /colors.inline >}}
<p class="text-body">.text-body</p>
<p class="text-muted">.text-muted</p>
<p class="text-white bg-dark">.text-white</p>
<p class="text-black-50">.text-black-50</p>
<p class="text-white-50 bg-dark">.text-white-50</p>
{{< /example >}}

{{< callout warning >}}
**Deprecation:** With the addition of `.text-opacity-*` utilities and CSS variables for text utilities, `.text-black-50` and `.text-white-50` are deprecated as of v5.1.0. They'll be removed in v6.0.0.
{{< /callout >}}

{{< callout info >}}
{{< partial "callout-warning-color-assistive-technologies.md" >}}
{{< /callout >}}

## Opacity

<small class="d-inline-flex px-2 py-1 font-monospace text-muted border rounded-3">Added in v5.1.0</small>

As of v5.1.0, text color utilities are generated with Sass using CSS variables. This allows for real-time color changes without compilation and dynamic alpha transparency changes.

### How it works

Consider our default `.text-primary` utility.

```css
.text-primary {
  --bs-text-opacity: 1;
  color: rgba(var(--bs-primary-rgb), var(--bs-text-opacity)) !important;
}
```

We use an RGB version of our `--bs-primary` (with the value of `13, 110, 253`) CSS variable and attached a second CSS variable, `--bs-text-opacity`, for the alpha transparency (with no default value, but a fallback of `1`). That means anytime you use `.text-primary` now, your computed `color` value is `rgba(13, 110, 253, 1)`.

### Example

To change that opacity, override `--bs-text-opacity` via custom styles or inline styles.

{{< example >}}
<div class="text-primary">This is default primary text</div>
<div class="text-primary" style="--bs-text-opacity: .5;">This is 50% opacity primary text</div>
{{< /example >}}

Or, choose from any of the `.text-opacity` utilities:

{{< example >}}
<div class="text-primary">This is default primary text</div>
<div class="text-primary text-opacity-75">This is 75% opacity primary text</div>
<div class="text-primary text-opacity-50">This is 50% opacity primary text</div>
<div class="text-primary text-opacity-25">This is 25% opacity primary text</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Specificity

Sometimes contextual classes cannot be applied due to the specificity of another selector. In some cases, a sufficient workaround is to wrap your element's content in a `<div>` or more semantic element with the desired class.

## Sass

In addition to the following Sass functionality, consider reading about our included [CSS custom properties]({{< docsref "/customize/css-variables" >}}) (aka CSS variables) for colors and more.

### Variables

Most `color` utilities are generated by our theme colors, reassigned from our generic color palette variables.

{{< scss-docs name="color-variables" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

{{< scss-docs name="theme-color-variables" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

Grayscale colors are also available, but only a subset are used to generate any utilities.

{{< scss-docs name="gray-color-variables" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

### Map

Theme colors are then put into a Sass map so we can loop over them to generate our utilities, component modifiers, and more.

{{< scss-docs name="theme-colors-map" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

Grayscale colors are also available as a Sass map. **This map is not used to generate any utilities.**

{{< scss-docs name="gray-colors-map" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

RGB colors are generated from a separate Sass map:

{{< scss-docs name="theme-colors-rgb" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

And color opacities build on that with their own map that's consumed by the utilities API:

{{< scss-docs name="utilities-text-colors" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

### Utilities API

Color utilities are declared in our utilities API in `scss/_utilities.scss`. [Learn how to use the utilities API.]({{< docsref "/utilities/api#using-the-api" >}})

{{< scss-docs name="utils-color" file="scss/_utilities.scss" >}}

Commit message:

Document the utility API's new css-var boolean
Improve utils API docs to reflect latest changes

More API docs updates

fix indentation in snippets while i'm here

Clarify usage of local CSS var, fix typo from copy-pasta

site/content/docs/5.0/utilities/colors.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Colors
description: Convey meaning through `color` with a handful of color utility classes. Includes support for styling links with hover states, too.
group: utilities
toc: true
---

## Colors

Colorize text with color utilities. If you want to colorize links, you can use the [`.link-*` helper classes]({{< docsref "/helpers/colored-links" >}}) which have `:hover` and `:focus` states.

{{< example >}}
{{< colors.inline >}}
{{- range (index $.Site.Data "theme-colors") }}
<p class="text-{{ .name }}{{ with .contrast_color }} bg-{{ . }}{{ end }}">.text-{{ .name }}</p>
{{- end -}}
{{< /colors.inline >}}
<p class="text-body">.text-body</p>
<p class="text-muted">.text-muted</p>
<p class="text-white bg-dark">.text-white</p>
<p class="text-black-50">.text-black-50</p>
<p class="text-white-50 bg-dark">.text-white-50</p>
{{< /example >}}

{{< callout warning >}}
**Deprecation:** With the addition of `.text-opacity-*` utilities and CSS variables for text utilities, `.text-black-50` and `.text-white-50` are deprecated as of v5.1.0. They'll be removed in v6.0.0.
{{< /callout >}}

{{< callout info >}}
{{< partial "callout-warning-color-assistive-technologies.md" >}}
{{< /callout >}}

## Opacity

<small class="d-inline-flex px-2 py-1 font-monospace text-muted border rounded-3">Added in v5.1.0</small>

As of v5.1.0, text color utilities are generated with Sass using CSS variables. This allows for real-time color changes without compilation and dynamic alpha transparency changes.

### How it works

Consider our default `.text-primary` utility.

```css
.text-primary {
  --bs-text-opacity: 1;
  color: rgba(var(--bs-primary-rgb), var(--bs-text-opacity)) !important;
}
```

We use an RGB version of our `--bs-primary` (with the value of `13, 110, 253`) CSS variable and attached a second CSS variable, `--bs-text-opacity`, for the alpha transparency (with a default value `1` thanks to a local CSS variable). That means anytime you use `.text-primary` now, your computed `color` value is `rgba(13, 110, 253, 1)`. The local CSS variable inside each `.text-*` class avoids inheritance issues so nested instances of the utilities don't automatically have a modified alpha transparency.

### Example

To change that opacity, override `--bs-text-opacity` via custom styles or inline styles.

{{< example >}}
<div class="text-primary">This is default primary text</div>
<div class="text-primary" style="--bs-text-opacity: .5;">This is 50% opacity primary text</div>
{{< /example >}}

Or, choose from any of the `.text-opacity` utilities:

{{< example >}}
<div class="text-primary">This is default primary text</div>
<div class="text-primary text-opacity-75">This is 75% opacity primary text</div>
<div class="text-primary text-opacity-50">This is 50% opacity primary text</div>
<div class="text-primary text-opacity-25">This is 25% opacity primary text</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Specificity

Sometimes contextual classes cannot be applied due to the specificity of another selector. In some cases, a sufficient workaround is to wrap your element's content in a `<div>` or more semantic element with the desired class.

## Sass

In addition to the following Sass functionality, consider reading about our included [CSS custom properties]({{< docsref "/customize/css-variables" >}}) (aka CSS variables) for colors and more.

### Variables

Most `color` utilities are generated by our theme colors, reassigned from our generic color palette variables.

{{< scss-docs name="color-variables" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

{{< scss-docs name="theme-color-variables" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

Grayscale colors are also available, but only a subset are used to generate any utilities.

{{< scss-docs name="gray-color-variables" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

### Map

Theme colors are then put into a Sass map so we can loop over them to generate our utilities, component modifiers, and more.

{{< scss-docs name="theme-colors-map" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

Grayscale colors are also available as a Sass map. **This map is not used to generate any utilities.**

{{< scss-docs name="gray-colors-map" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

RGB colors are generated from a separate Sass map:

{{< scss-docs name="theme-colors-rgb" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

And color opacities build on that with their own map that's consumed by the utilities API:

{{< scss-docs name="utilities-text-colors" file="scss/_variables.scss" >}}

### Utilities API

Color utilities are declared in our utilities API in `scss/_utilities.scss`. [Learn how to use the utilities API.]({{< docsref "/utilities/api#using-the-api" >}})

{{< scss-docs name="utils-color" file="scss/_utilities.scss" >}}
